the FED has been casually slowly and in
agonizing Leisure increasing interest
rates commercial Banks usually follow
suit by passing that off onto their
customers increase rates on savings
accounts means more people saving that
means more money in their pockets over
time but what happened this time around
you came here for the truth today let's
get into this as well as many more
topics a whole host of issues to discuss
today let's begin right here when you
see the total deposits at the US
commercial Banks just continuing to rise
you would think that we have more money
being earned in savings
accounts each
25 BPS of foregone interest is costing
depositors about $30 billion a Year all
of which is Flowing straight into the
bottom line of the large Banks now for
each 25 basis points that they have
increased the Federal Reserve is
essentially giving that signal to the
commercial banks that they can also
follow suit but that hasn't been the
case so people haven't been earning on
their savings accounts as they would in
the past
this is something very different than
what we have seen and it's not a good
sign nearly 122
trillion are held in deposit at
commercial Banks we're talking about a
large sum of money that could be earning
interest that could be making its way
onto the saver which then of course
would be spent into the economy that
doesn't happen now at least not yet and
I don't know why other other than to
increase corporate profits what else is
new of course Banks don't want to raise
deposit rates until they have to though
they tend to raise certain loan rates as
soon as the FED makes a move they prefer
to let the deposit rates
lag bolstering profits that's what it's
all about every single time
around and there's more to discuss here
but let's move on to the next issue
because I have so many things to talk
about here cash is King again enjoying a
steady job market but reluctant to
freely spend into the economy because of
the uncertainty a wide swath of
middleclass Americans are hoarding money
in Banks total Bank deposits Rose 6.6%
last year to 10.7 trillion dollar
extending steady growth seen in recent
years deposits uh as a percentage of the
bank assets are 77% in the first quarter
of 2017
now what we can see with the Federal
Reserve is that they are seemingly going
to continue to increase interest rates
every so often at about 25 basis points
we had Canada following suit just
recently and you can see that this may
be the same policy that's applied over
the next little while unless something
changes within the economy or the uh you
know an official recession is declared
or what have
you but we can see that this will
probably continue so when you look at
interest rates that is given by the
Federal Reserve by the Central Bank of
that particular country and then the
commercial Banks react accordingly they
borrow from the central bank so the
central bank is ultimately determining
what happened
with people's money they can devalue it
they can decide to pull out liquidity
they can increase liquidity they decide
that so it is very very crucial to look
at what the Federal Reserve or what the
central bank is doing at any given time
to be able to determine what will happen
with inflation deflation and everything
else down the line unfortunately there
seems to be a little disconnect here as
the amount of deposits are increasing it
is unfortunately not translating into
more income for people now while it
might not be much to your grandma a few
pennies might be a little
beneficial monthly federal spending tops
$400
billion for the first time we are
looking at mass quantities of money
being spent right now there is a huge
deficit that is being created when you
think about the amount
of spending that's taking place and then
look at what it's spent on it's absurd
they can never
ever go ahead and get rid of debt it
just doesn't happen it doesn't happen
it's impossible because of the way they
spend they need to continue to spend
more into the future sure you might have
temporary declines but long-term Trend
spend spend spend in San Francisco
family earning
$138,000 May soon qualify for Middle
inome affordable housing can you believe
it that's how expensive it has become
$138,000 between two
people and that's considered middle
income affordable
housing I understand it's not lwi income
but
still they're getting subsidies they're
being able to uh
basically because the prices have gone
so high they're able to sort of get
around on some tax incentives or what
have you so that to me shows that it is
extremely overvalued right now at this
time you don't want to have to have the
government step in and make a rule or a
law that prevents things from happening
or anything like this shouldn't be like
that if it's like that there's probably
something else holding it
[Music]
up the IMF and I just did a video about
Canada recently but check this out that
while Canada's economy has regained
momentum housing imbalances have
increased and uncertainty surrounding
trade negotiations with the us could
hurt the recovery and they're saying
that yes they did increase interest
rates to7
5% and it also cautioned against
tightening they're saying whoa whoa whoa
whoa whoa you can't tighten you guys
aren't doing well enough don't do that
the IMF the
biz and others have been warning about
Canada's economy saying you don't have
the right to do this at this time you're
acting a little
crazy while the output Gap has started
to close monetary policy should stay
accommodative until signs of durable
growth and higher inflation
emerge they're saying print more money
keep your interest rates down keep
everything flowing lots of tax breaks
for the citizens lots of free money lots
of free money and wait it out because
now is not the time to be increasing
interest rates you'll crash your
economy and remember that's not me
that's the IMF
the economy has regained
momentum momentum supported by the
Authority's proactive growth strategy
but complex adjustments are still at
play talks
about personal consumption is robust
businesses investment remains weak
non-energy exports have underperformed
and housing market imbalances have risen
and essentially it goes on to talk about
the the chance of recovery declining
because they're increasing interest
rates that is not a good sign they also
say
that there is less growth to come so I
do agree with them on this
unfortunately it doesn't seem like it is
uh really being looked at realistically
in fact they just do what they want it's
all about saving face it's all political
we know that despite what Janet the
Felon has said and take a look at this
I've covered this before but as the time
goes on it becomes even more relevant
and what you're looking at this being
the Cycles in the economic expansions in
the
US and you'll see that the current one
months is number three so they've
already surpassed the 82 to
91 and it is climbing closer and closer
to back in the
60s
and it won't be long before this becomes
the longest economic expansion in
history and that will make people very
very rich if they know how to sell off
in time and put them put their wealth
into another investment but the point
I'd like to make is that as we
see assets Rising and rising and rising
and then we tend to see a parabolic turn
right near the
end every time that I've seen it it
always
declines with extreme speed every
time it always goes down much much
faster than it came up the question is
will you be able to time it are you
going to be at the top are you going to
be at the bottom when are you going to
sell are you going to just wait are you
going to hold on tight and hope that it
comes back
up well that's up to you to
decide this is one thing that I I wanted
to note one of the subscribers on this
channel has talked about the fact that
quite the opposite of this anyway let's
cover it here lightweight vehicle sales
auto light trucks in the millions of
units we are seeing this number
declining and this has taken place since
the end of last year up until now and
I've covered these indicators before how
you can talk about the uh basically the
truck sales and I would have to say that
it seems like these numbers have
declined but in truth this is something
that is fluctuating all the time we can
never just take this for what it is I
mean you can see the trend though from
2014 on was an increase so in the short
term here let's say 6 months it has
declined but we'll see where it ends
up 21 to 34 year olds likely to make up
the greatest share of us consumer
default risk over the next 12 months now
look at this I've covered it on the
channel before student loans have gone
insane they are the biggest bubble right
now they've come out of nowhere
seemingly but it's um really showing us
how we can have a bubble in any
territory any sector there is the
possibility of a bubble forming and the
student loans are clearly there well
over a trillion dollars in student loans
and a lot of them don't want to pay it
back a lot of them want to continue to
keep that debt on their books and that's
just a matter of fact I've shown you the
polls before and it doesn't look like
they'll pay it back we'll see what
happens to finish us off to switch
gears you know I cover this stuff at
random and it just it's freaky every
time a republican donor an operative
from Chicago's North Shore
who said he had tried to obtain Hillary
Clinton's missing emails from the
Russian hackers killed himself in a
hotel room days after talking to the
Wall Street Journal about his
efforts
suspicious
certainly how many times do we see
people that have
said they've brought some information to
somebody then they say okay I'm being
followed people are watching me I'm
getting this suspicious activity and and
then next thing you know the guy commits
suicide look at Gary web killed himself
with two bullets in the head if that's
not a warning if that's not
a sirens and bells going off everywhere
I I really don't know what it is I I
just don't that's just so
stupid but people are fooled by it so I
guess maybe they deserve it that's all
for this video if you found this
informative please give me a thumbs up
and
last but not least if you found the
video informative I know you'll find my
books the money GPS and my new release
global economic collapse even more
informative so you can actually flip
through the pages of this book if you go
over to Amazon they have a look inside
feature which will allow you to flip
through the pages of these books to see
if you like them take
care